# Scripts

Make sense of discourse and stories

Frames -> understanding -> common sense reasoning -> scripts

Defining scripts
Form vs content
Generating expectations
Hierarchies of scripts

## Exercise a Simple Conversation

Todays AI are typically limited to one sentence response.  Does the following story make sense?

Ali asked, “Do you think we’ll have many customers in the next half-hour?

Sarah replied, “Go ahead and grab your lunch”

There is a lot to be implied from these two sentences.  Lots of inferences can be produced from the limited input whether or not they are correctly chained between the inputs.

## Story Understanding for AI agents

Story make sense of the world.  They generate expectations before events occur.  Allow to make connections between events.  

Scripts are a knowledge representation.

## Visiting a Coffeehouse

How do you normally get coffee?  I got a coffee place and get in line

Then?

Approach Barista?

Then?

Get Total and play


Etc.

No specific expectations where given like which particular coffee house.  Expectations where generated by the person describing how they get coffee.

Scripts generate expectations.




## Definition of Scripts

Scripts:  A causally coherent set of events.

Casually - Each event sets off, or causes, the next event.

Coherent - The causal connections between events make sense.

##Parts of a Script

Entry conditions: Conditions necessary to execute the script.

Result: Conditions that will be true after the script has taken place.

Props: Objects involved in the execution of the script.

Roles: Agents involved in the execution of the script.

Track: Variations or “subclasses’ of the particular script.

Scenes:  The sequence of events that occurs during the execution of the script.

## Constructing a Script

Restaraunt Script

Script: restaraunt
Track: formal dining
Props: tables, menu, check, money, F = food, P= place
Roles: S = customer, W = waiter, C = cook, M= cashier, O = owner
Entry: S is hungry, S has money
Result: S has less money, O has more money, S is not hungry, S is pleased
Scenes: Listed below

Scene 1: Entering

Action Frame  (Customer going to a restaurant)
Prim. : move-object
Agent : S
Object: S
Destination : p

Action Frame   ( Sees a table
Prim. : see
Agent : S
Object: table

Action Frame (Customer decides to take an action)
Prim. : conclude
Agent : S
Result : Next Frame…

Action Frame   (Walking action to the table)
Prim. : move-object
Agent : S
Object : S
Destination : table

...and so forth.  There are more scenes to be constructed until the customer leaves the restaurant.


## Form vs Content

Continuing with restaraunt example, how would a robot know what to do in a restaraunt?  If the robot had scripts in his memory, he could invoke the restaurant scripts to know what actions to take.  Scripts generate expectations for the robot.  Primitive actions connect the frames.  Some Frames are composed of other frames.

## Using a Script to Generate Expectations

Expectations fall short often.  How to manage this?  Suppose an event never occurs like a waiter never arriving to take an order.  We can infer that something has gone wrong and lead an alternative path.

Theory of creativity say that a situation is creative if it is A, novel B, useful and valuable in some way, C if it unexpectedly surprising.

## Tracks

An example of a  restaurant hierarchy.  Restaurant can lead to a coffee house OR fast food OR casual dining OR formal dining.

How can AI agent actually use these scripts?  Example,

If an AI agent is hungry and has money then decides to do something about it.  Goes into long term memory and find out which script that is useful for the current situation.  This ends up a classification problem.  

Couple ways the robot could approach the problem  First, if the robot was to walk into a restaurant and noticed the restaurant closely matches a fast food, it would invoke a fast food script.  Second, the robot could make a plan given some initial conditions and goal conditions it could use the operations available to it to generate a plan at run time.  

The first approach has a script that resembles a plan already preconstructed.  The second approach generates a plan at runtime.  Second approach has difficulties with the complex world and limited computational resources for generating a plan.  First option is more feasible and executing it is much faster.

## Exercise: Learning a Script

Which of the following prior topics might help an agent learn a script?  

X Semantic Networks
X Frames
Production Systems
Learning by Recording Cases
X Incremental Concept Learning
X Planning
X Commonsense Reasoning

Semantic Networks and Frames are functionally equivalent.  Semantic networks can be transposed to frames.  Frames to Semantic networks too.  Incremental concept learning can be used to differentiate between subclass scripts.  Planning generating a script can be used for a new similiar situation.  Commonsense reasoning can learn within some language of primitive actions that it understands and make sense of new novel situations.

Productions and learning by recording cases are too low level of abstractions.  Learning by recording cases sticks to cases.  Productions are too small like atoms are too molecules like scripts are.
One bit about semantic networks is that they can be much related to scripts such in a way that when semantic networks activate the connection between these activations are scripts.

## Exercise:  Using a Script Quiz

WHich of the following prior topics might help an agent use a script?  Check all that apply.

Generate & Test
Means-Ends Analysis
X Problem Reduction
Case-Based Reasoning
X Classification
X Logic
X Understanding


## Assignment: Scripts

How would you use scripts to design an agent that could answer RPMs?

Scripts are ways of making sense of complex events in the world and RPMs are certainly complex.  Where do the scripts come from?  Do they learn new scripts?

## Wrap Up

Defining Scripts
Form vs Content - 
Generating expectations
Tracks

## The Cognitive Connection

Brain is a predictable machine theory.  Bottom-up processing to genrerate expectations.  When these expectations fail, anger or laughter may occur.  Do we generate scripts at runtime or carry them in our head?

Scripts can be culture specific.  Leaving a tip for example in different countries.

